# Software_Development_Life_Cycle
Body of work used to get a more in-depth understanding of the software development life cycle

For this semester, I was tasked with learning the ins and outs of the software development life cycle. One of the biggest takeaways from this class revolves around getting to know what exactly the user needs in order to create a solution to their issue. One of doing this is through the use of user stories. By forming a series of questions around what the user wants and why, developers are much more capable of getting down to what exactly the user is trying to accomplish. User stories also help the team move away from developing for themselves, and drive more of their focus towards how it will ultimately affect the user's experience. 

When it comes to approaching the development of programs, the class focused primarily on the use of the Agile framework throughout the semester. As someone who has had some experience with agile development, I found it refreshing to go over its process again. The one major take away was observing just how little or loose of a narrative a development team is given at the start of a project. For example, this class focused on the development of a travel website and eight weeks of development time to complete it for the summer travel season. And that was about as much information the client gave. I feel like this is a very likely scenario, because a lot of the time people often have an idea of what they want, but don't really have a heavily detailed idea of how they want it to work. So in order to combat this, a new form of development process is needed and thus the Agile framework was born. By allowing the development team to work through a series of sprints, the team is able to make progress while at the same time adapt to critiques from the product owner. This means that a better product is developed because it is tested and built periodically throughout development giving way to a much more sound and stronger product. As a future developer, I can definitely see this mindset having a pivotal role in any future project or job. The biggest take away is having an agile mindset; failing fast and failing often. Realizing that failure is a learning experience, and by learning from previous mishaps one is able to make a better and stronger product.

Another topic of discussion this semester was being a good team member. One of the best ways of doing this is through being a good communicator and listener. When it comes to Agile, communication is what makes or breaks a team, and without it the whole thing relatively falls apart. Take daily scrum meetings for example. By having everyone on the team voice what they are or have worked on as well as any issue they’re facing currently the team is more aware of their own as well as everyone else’s progress on the project. This helps build a sense of comradery among the members, instilling that people see themselves as part of a collective tackling an issue rather than just an individual. Without solid communication, I really do not think that the Agile process would be able to work. And thus I think it’s one of the most important aspects of what makes a good member on an agile development team.


